Developer Journal:

I started out coding the basics of what I knew, I had an idea for a quiz style game and I began making this by buidling lots of simple dictionaries in a custom module I made on a seprate file. I also created a main and intro function on my main file, importing the secondary file onto that.
The intro function began as just a bunch of prints but I worked on it, making lists and prompts that got appended into said lists. My secondary file also had a dictionary with a list of topics which I could print as examples for the user. I evolved my intro to update dictionary variables based on user inputs, grab variables to print fo different reasons. In my intro, for some inputs I imported re, which is a library, and used regex to ensure inputs didn't have accidental characters or typos. I also added empty functions for each individual topic and a topic function which listed out said topics from a dictionary.
I used import random, also a library, and made random number generators which would lead to a topic being chosen through a function being called. I had one function do this for contestants 1-5 and a seperate one do this for the user.
I added in more options for the user before we got to the topics, this was so the printed output wasn't too heavy and the user had more to do. I gave options to continue or stop the game at multiple points and also created a tested hello function which greeted the player after they input their name. I also implemented a randcont function which used a random number generator to choose a player at random. I made it so if contestants 1-5 were chosen, it would print them randomly choosing a topic, but if the user was chosen, they could pick a number out of 10 and personally select a topic.
I imported csv which I would use a lot later. I also made a specific function to run the age input seprately and accept it. This updated it in its dictionary. I made a variable = to a dictionary variable so some of the printed lines could be said from the host.
I started to note down parts of my code for easier understanding and to reference if necessary.
My first main specific def topic function I worked on was the maths one as I visualized it working differently to the other specific topic functions. I made it so you had to choose 2 of the 4 options, and it was run through if statements which would determine if it was right or not. I also made it so the input answers for the two choices, were timesed together and their product was printed. Added a maths dictonary to my module to grab the variables respective to the answer choices.
I created a list to tally the variables as points later. Each specific topic function would have a variable on a list and if the answer was correct, the variable would be updated from 0 to 10.
I made more of the specific topic functions and implemented an incorrect function which was called when the user answered wrong. Most of the rest of the specific topic functions followed the concept of the user inputting an answer based on a choice of 4. I used regex to make sure the inputs functioned properly with the require answers and had if statements for what would happen if the answer was invalid or incorrect. I also added more dictionaries to go with the specific topic functions.
Began to work on a random number remover which piggybacked off of the random number generator. In theory it was meant to remove the random number after it had been chosen so it couldn't be re produced and the same topic couldn't appear twice.
I added more dictionaries in my secondary file, to go with the specific topic functions that I was making in my main file.
Finished off the specific topic functions and respective dictionaries. I also had a forward function which would prompt if the user wanted to continue the game or exit and shut down.
I edited some functions such as the animal function, just tweaking the code to work. I had taken science dictionary variables for it so the answer was getting jumbled. I also started making a points total function which added up all the integer variables from the points list based on correct answers from the specific topic functions.
I tweaked some details and moved the incorrect() function into my secondary file. This made some room and I could still easily call it.
I added more functions to my custom module, a win function, a loss function, a tie function and I began to make a spin wheel function for prizes. I also added code to the point sum function, now randomly generating points for the other contestants, between 0 and 100 in intervals of 10. I could then compare the user score to their score and see who won, lost or if it was a tie.
I added more functions to my module to make the wheel spin produce the user with a prize out of 10 if they won. I also had a function to generate the end and shutdown of the game.
I created a list for topic numbers with which I made a random picker choose one, remove that selection so the corresponding topic couldn't be re picked, and the run the function for the specific topic.
I fixed the topic number random variable function section by editing to make it so if the list was empty it would call the point sum function but if it wasn't the random picker could continue calling functions. With the empty list calling the point sum function, it made it so the game wasn't stuck in a loop, after the 10 questions the game begins to tally score and wrap up.
I fixed the str error with functions that used integers, worked on issues when an input wasn't an integer and how to work around it. I made it so taking the input as an integer came later and an input which didn't have numbers would be "", and I could make that = to something to continue the code. I also removed unnecessary spacing.
I created, opened, read, printed and closed an intro text file. This ran as an introduction before the user had to do anything, this also relates to the brief section file i/o. I also made a csv file but didn't need it right now so discarded that one.
I made a class in main which replaced the host dictionary. It ran through name, age, country and favourite subject, allowing me to access the variables easily. This relates to the brief section, object orientated programming. Certain parts of the host class, replaced dictionary variables throughout the code.
I then made a respective contestant and topic class to replace their dictionaries in my module. This got rid of unnecessary dictionaries and replaced them with useful classes which I could refer values and data from. In the contestant class I had variables for name, age, country, feeling and at the time, favourite subject. These were used throughout my code. The topics class involved the answer choices for the topic functions.
I then went through after, and tidied up the notes for the code, correcting parts and helping for reference.
I used the csv import and made a csv file which I put data from the contestants in. I could store user inputs, current contestant information from classes and final scores for everything. This would happen near the end as it required the total point summary which was near the end. This is part of the brief section file i/o.

